[DOC] Improve the rack awareness documentation (#4733)
strimzi/strimzi-kafka-operator: documentation/api/io.strimzi.api.kafka.model.Rack.adoc

The `rack` option configures rack awareness.
A _rack_ can represent an availability zone, data center, or an actual rack in your data center.
The _rack_ is configured through a `topologyKey`.

> `topologyKey` identifies a label on Kubernetes nodes which contains the name of the topology in its value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`topologyKey` identifies a label on Kubernetes nodes that contains the name of the topology in its value.
```

> An example of such label is `topology.kubernetes.io/zone` (or `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone` on older Kubernetes versions) which contains the name of the availability zone in which the Kubernetes node runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of such a label is `topology.kubernetes.io/zone` (or `failure-domain.beta.kubernetes.io/zone` on older Kubernetes versions), which contains the name of the availability zone in which the Kubernetes node runs.
```

> You can configure your Kafka cluster to be aware of the _rack_ in which it runs and enable some additional features such as spreading partition replicas across different racks or consuming messages from the closest replicas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure your Kafka cluster to be aware of the _rack_ in which it runs, and enable additional features such as spreading partition replicas across different racks or consuming messages from the closest replicas.
```

For more information about Kubernetes node labels, see {K8sWellKnownLabelsAnnotationsAndTaints}.
Consult your Kubernetes administrator regarding the node label that represents the zone or rack into which the node is deployed.

=== Spreading partition replicas across racks

When rack awareness is enabled, Strimzi will set `broker.rack` configuration for each Kafka broker.

> The `broker.rack` configuration assigns a rack ID to each broker.

Reviewer: Would this be better in the first section? And does this mean we can enable without further config?

Author: Ok, good point. I changed it to _configured_.

> When it is configured, Kafka brokers will spread partition replicas across as many different racks as possible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When rack awareness is configured, Kafka brokers will spread partition replicas across as many different racks as possible.
```

> This improves the resiliency and is important for availability and reliability.
> When the replicas are spread across multiple racks, the probability that multiple replicas will fail at the same time is lower than if they would be in the same rack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When replicas are spread across multiple racks, the probability that multiple replicas will fail at the same time is lower than if they would be in the same rack. Spreading replicas improves resiliency, and is important for availability and reliability.
```

To enable rack awareness in Kafka, add the `rack` option to the `.spec.kafka` section of the `Kafka` custom resource as shown in the example below.

.Example `rack` configuration for Kafka
[source,yaml,subs=attributes+]
----
apiVersion: {KafkaApiVersion}
kind: Kafka
metadata:
  name: my-cluster
spec:
  kafka:
    # ...
    rack:
      topologyKey: topology.kubernetes.io/zone
    # ...
----

> NOTE: In some case, the brokers might change the _rack_ in which they run.
> That can cause that replicas running in different racks will now share the same rack.
> You should regularly use Cruise Control and `KafkaRebalance` resource with the `RackAwareGoal` to make sure the replicas stay distributed across different racks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The _rack_ in which brokers are running can change. As a result, the replicas running in different racks might then share the same rack. Use Cruise Control and the `KafkaRebalance` resource with the `RackAwareGoal` to make sure that replicas remain distributed across different racks.
```

> When rack awareness is enabled in the `Kafka` custom resource, Strimzi will automatically add `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` affinity rule to distribute the Kafka brokers across the different racks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When rack awareness is enabled in the `Kafka` custom resource, Strimzi will automatically add the Kubernetes `preferredDuringSchedulingIgnoredDuringExecution` affinity rule to distribute the Kafka brokers across the different racks.
```

However, the _preferred_ rule does not guarantee that the brokers will be spread.
Depending on your exact Kubernetes and Kafka configurations, you should add additional `affinity` rules or configure `topologySpreadConstraints` for both ZooKeeper and Kafka to make sure the nodes are properly distributed accross as many racks as possible.
For more information see xref:assembly-scheduling-str[].

> === Consuming messages from closest replicas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Consuming messages from the closest replicas
```

> Rack awareness can be also used in consumers to fetch data from the closest replica.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Rack awareness can also be used in consumers to fetch data from the closest replica.
```

This is useful for reducing the load on your network when a Kafka cluster spans multiple datacenters and can also reduce costs when running Kafka in public clouds.
However, it can lead to increased latency.

> In order to be able to consume from the closest replica, the rack awareness has to be configured in the Kafka cluster, and the `RackAwareReplicaSelector` has to be enabled.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to be able to consume from the closest replica, rack awareness has to be configured in the Kafka cluster, and the `RackAwareReplicaSelector` has to be enabled.
```

    # ...
----

In addition to the Kafka broker configuration, you also need to specify the `client.rack` option in your consumers.
The `client.rack` option should specify the _rack ID_ in which the consumer is running.
`RackAwareReplicaSelector` associates matching `broker.rack` and `client.rack` IDs, to find the nearest replica and consume from it.
If there are multiple replicas in the same rack, `RackAwareReplicaSelector` always selects the most up-to-date replica.
If the rack ID is not specified, or if it cannot find a replica with the same rack ID, it will fall back to the leader replica.

.Example showing client consuming from replicas in the same availability zone
image::rack-config-availability-zones.svg[consuming from replicas in the same availability zone]

Consuming messages from the closest replicas can be used also in Kafka Connect for sink connectors which are consuming messages.

> When deploying Kafka Connect using Strimzi, you can use the `rack` section in the `KafkaConnect` or `KafkaConnectS2I` CRs to automatically configure the `client.rack` option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When deploying Kafka Connect using Strimzi, you can use the `rack` section in the `KafkaConnect` or `KafkaConnectS2I` custom resources to automatically configure the `client.rack` option.
```

    # ...
----

> Enabling the rack awareness in the `KafkaConnect` or `KafkaConnectS2I` custom resource will not set any affinity rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling rack awareness in the `KafkaConnect` or `KafkaConnectS2I` custom resource will not set any affinity rules.
```

> You can configure `affinity` or `topologySpreadConstraints` in other parts of the custom resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
